The Joe Rogan experience.
The big change in my life was when I learned how to breathe.
I start to bring in more spiritual possibilities, more mental possibilities,
because what is interesting about the, the,
the breathing aspect is the brain and the,
and the heart are the only organs who can give
and receive information. The other organs, liver,
kidney, they don't cannot do that.
But when you get upset with something mentally,
you bring information to yourself immediately.
Your brain's responding your heart too. When you get depressed,
immediately feel in your heart and your heart show you, you said,
show you is immediately connection.
And what is amazing about that is the lung is the practical aspect
within you are able to control or, or help your,
your brain and also help your heart.
So through the proper breathing,
you can control your heartbeats through the proper breathing.
You can control your mindset and get calmer, control your panic control,
your courage, control everything you need in the mental aspect.
And also spiritual hope. Faith, visualizations,
all the elements in your brain.
All the elements in your heart can be much better guided,
much better help through the lungs.
If you don't know how to involve your lungs in your brain, in your breathing,
you, you, you are not able to, to, to favor your,
your brain and your heart, the way supposed to be.
It's kind of amazing that everybody breathes,
but a relatively small percentage of people know how to breathe correctly. Yes.
You born, you get slap on your butt
and you think you live in well and you breathe for life. It's not like that.
The first learn you learn about breathing is to move the upper body,
the upper part of your lung.
If you don't learn, if you don't PRS,
you're never gonna use the DIAP pragmatic breathing,
which involves the full capacitor of your lungs. So the diag,
when you, how you move your diaphragm efficiently,
you fill up your lungs in a different way. So if I breathe right
or wrong,
either more or less oxygen up to me, the way I use the diag or not.
So when I learned how to use that, I'm able to help my body and whatever needs,
mental, spiritual, or physical.
When you, uh, that famous scene in choke,
when you're moving your stomach around or the drums beating, it's,
it's really crazy. I love people. People love that scene. Yeah.
Because you're using that control of your diaphragm.
How did you learn how to do that?
The <inaudible> he taught you.
To do that. He taught me. Yes.
And how long did it take before you could move your stomach like that?
I know it's not as difficult can do that too, right? Yeah. It's.
Not as difficult. You can learn this in no time.
You just need the righteous because it's all about it is a quick learning.
You know, it's just,
you have to put some attention because when you learn how to breathe,
you start adding oxygen to your life.
You can stay five, seven days without food, five days without water,
but five minutes without the air, you dead.
So when you know how to hyperventilate, it's like double your life.
Three point your lifetime because you not get tired as you want. What do you.
When you say hyperventilate, what do you mean by hyperventilate?
I'm here come right. If I do this,
I breathe. If I wanna go dive,
I need to hyperventilate. So I need to <laugh>
Because I,
I increase the circulation of oxygen in my body and I increase the blood,
the oxygen on the cells.
So I do hyperventilation for a little while and I triple the of time.
I gonna be under the water.
Another important thing for people to learn about breathing is the idea
of inhale.
They inhale is not the cause is the solution. So what I,
what if I need a full lung, a full breath? I don't wanna just do,
if I want a full breath, I first need to.
Now I have a full breath, because if I just start from here,
I already have 30% of air inside, which is not, we doesn't empty enough.
So in order for me to put it all in a hundred percent of
good air inside my liveness,
my attention has to be on the exhale.
Now I'm ready to get there. The effort,
the strength on the muscle. If I need to be, get a big biceps,
I need to curl. If I need to have a strong breeding system,
I need to Excel. They inhale is natural.
Some people, they feel tired. I need their, they go against the, the, and,
and against the, the, the flow, because they try to bring in,
which is already Claus of fabric. More. I need air more like,
oh my God.
So my liveness, my focus is to take the bad gas out of me,
the good gas coming. Naturally. Some people say, I need air. They need the air,
but they're already full of bad gas. So,
and that's make a big confusion on the, on the right way to the gas commun out.
So my organization in my brain is to put the bad gas out of me.
So when I train consistently,
If I'm not effective on the exhale, I'm not gonna be effective on inhale.
And the liveness of my, my muscle system is the contraction.
The contraction is the di pragmatic breathing, pH that's the contraction.
If I do a curve for get like strong biceps, that's the contraction.
When I do this, I relax contract.
So contract relax.
So, and that's giving me a,
a different edge to understand clear everything around me.
Watch the.
Entire episode for free, only on Spotify.